so how much does it actually cost to own
a private jet
well first you need to buy one while a
simple jet will set you back three to
ten million dollars
a more luxurious model costs around 80
to 90 million
why such a huge difference well the
cheapest jets are basically just
mini versions of regular planes they're
usually older and have fewer amenities
on board
but if you're willing to splurge to get
a real luxury experience
you'll probably feel like you're in a
flying first class hotel room rather
than a plane
the most modern jets feature a dedicated
bedroom
with a comfortable bed a full-service
kitchen
head accommodation and the newest
gadgets so
you've finally made the decision and
bought the jet that's just right for you
but now you need to be ready to open
your wallet a lot wider
because just the maintenance for one of
these things can cost you a fortune
most aircraft sellers claim the
operating cost is justified
if you fly for at least 200 hours a year
so let's see how much it will cost you
to do just that
let's start with the most basic thing
your jet needs fuel to even get started
the average fuel cost is around four
dollars per gallon
that means spending around 280 000
per year on the gas alone for this
amount of money you could buy a small
house
also remember you're not going to be
flying the jet on your own
usually a small jet has one to two
pilots plus a flight attendant
a good pilot salary can reach a quarter
of a million dollars per year
and depending on the size of your jet
you might need two
or three pilots sometimes the crew might
also include a private chef
to cook you restaurant class food in the
sky
or maybe a personal bartender all their
salaries alone could cost
a million dollars a year and if you're
planning on staying in a remote location
well you'll need to pay for the
accommodation for the whole crew
or send them back home but remember the
previous point about the cost of gas
you can always find somewhere to park
your car sadly it's not the same with a
private jet
it just won't fit in your backyard so
you'll need to rent a spacious
hangar that will cost you an extra
seventy thousand dollars a year
staying in remote places doesn't come
for free either
and just like parking in the street
you'll have to pay for an
individual spot don't forget that planes
also have a tendency to break from time
to time
just like cars but when your automobile
has a flat tire
you can fix it for a few bucks solving a
similar problem with a private jet
means spending a few thousand dollars
fixing a cracked windshield can cost
between
forty five thousand and seventy thousand
dollars
then you need to add insurance crew
training and other unexpected expenses
to all this
in the end we're looking at a sum of
around a million dollars per year
and that's only for 200 hours of flying
so
around three trips from los angeles to
new york per month
if you travel more often more for longer
it'll cost you around two million
dollars per year
but if you imagine a rock star or a
glamorous celebrity when you think of
private jets
you're mistaken most jets are actually
used for business
this is because a private jet can save
you precious time at the airport
and as we all know time is money besides
that
private jets are a comfortable place to
continue doing your work private
traveling also helps to protect
intellectual property and ensures that
nobody can steal corporate secrets
there are also more than fifteen
thousand private flights for
humanitarian reasons each year
big corporations donate their jets to
take patients to specific hospitals
or deliver supplies to places in need
some airports
especially in small towns can only
accommodate private jets
so these planes can be really important
for delivering supplies to areas with
emergencies
or evacuating people so you're still
dead set on flying private but cannot
afford to buy a jet
don't worry there are still plenty of
options available to you
if you have a net worth of around 25
million bucks
you can buy part of a jet well not
literally
what would you do with just a cabin or
one of the wings
i mean you can buy time on the plane the
smallest share is 1
16 and that can cost you anywhere from
hundreds of thousands to tens of
millions of dollars
depending on the aircraft model a basic
deal will get you 50 flying hours
and access to a fleet of planes with a
company
if that doesn't work for you there's
another option
jet cards these basically let you buy
private flight time based on your needs
and the more hours you buy the cheaper
they are
different companies will provide a
variety of services and levels of luxury
but around 20 hours will cost you
between one and two
hundred thousand dollars for less
frequent travelers
the on-demand charter option might work
better instead of buying time or partial
ownership you just reserve a private
plane for a specific flight
an hour of journey time may cost between
ten and thirty thousand dollars
now that's not cheap but it's still much
better than two million dollars
if that's still too expensive for you
i've got another option
seat sharing now this is pretty simple a
person who's booked a private flight
can decide to sell a few seats in their
jet think of it as a little like an uber
pool for a plane
you'll still have to pay around twenty
thousand dollars for the membership
plus about two thousand dollars for an
actual seat
an even cheaper option is known as empty
legs
this refers to private jets flying back
to their base after completing a flight
these flights can typically cost you a
few thousand dollars
but the cheaper options come to just a
few hundred
these often work for people with
flexible schedules if the main passenger
changes their plans
then your flight is cancelled the
cheapest option on the list
are the private aviation scheduled
flights
tickets can be as cheap as 60 dollars
but here you won't get the kind of
luxurious plane you see in promotional
pictures
usually these are just smaller versions
of the big commercial airliners
with a little legroom and a small amount
of luggage space
the benefit of flying private in this
case is in terms of the time you'll save
these planes depart from smaller
airports so you can arrive
15 minutes before takeoff and leave
pretty much as soon as the plane touches
the ground
and if you can't afford any of these
options you can at least
admire all those private jets out there